A difference in opinions, values, attitudes and lifestyle among people of different ages is called 'generation gap'. Due to these differences, people belonging to different generations find themselves unable to relate to each other. This communication gap between successive generations is not a new phenomenon. The fight between the old and the young is not new and has been bound in the culture of every nation of the world. Parents and children across the world have been facing this problem. Due to fast-paced modern lifestyles, parents and children hardly find time together. The children, thus unable to express their thoughts and ideas to their parents, turn to friends for advice who are as inexperienced as they are. In the era of globalization and liberalization, the gap between the young the old reached its zenith.


Today's children are born into a competitive world and have a struggle to get every thing. Many a time their true potential gets overshadowed in the rat race. Parents- burdened by the expectations of the society- end up forcing certain subjects and careers and lives that their parents have chosen for them, children are left lost and confused. Parents, on the other hand, feel that in this rapidly changing society where everyone is so self-centered, it is their duty to protect their children. Parents tend to feel that their children require guidance. This cannot be denied. But their constant monitoring makes children feel oppressed and they tend to turn rebellious.


Thus, generation gap is destroying the basic human relationship and is obviously a threat to the social stability of family relations. It is essential for parents to talk to their children and treat them as individuals. To be forever treated as child can be irritating and sometimes even humiliating. Children, in turn, must reciprocate with due respect and attention. Matters such as career, lifestyle and sensitive issues like freedom of choice of friends must be dealt with carefully and with maturity. Love and understanding are the best antidotes to this ever-widening generation gap. Only then will children look up to their parents and parents will not be burdened with their guilt of not being there for their children in their hour of need. In this way generation gap can at least be narrowed, if not completely filled.