Full name of ‘Sachin Tendulkar’ is Sachin Ramesh Tendulkar. He was born on 24 April 1973. His father, Ramesh Tendulkar, was a well-known Marathi novelist and his mother, Rajni, worked in the insurance industry. He married with Anjali Mehta, the paediatrician daughter of Gujarati industrialist Anand Mehta, in 1995


Sachin Tendulkar is a former Indian cricketer and captain. He took up cricket at the age of eleven, He is the only player to have scored one hundred international centuries. He is the first batsman to score a double century in a One Day International. He is the only player to complete more than 30,000 runs in international cricket.


Sachin Tendulkar received the Arjuna Award in 1994 for his outstanding sporting achievement. He received the Rajiv Gandhi Khel Ratna award in 1997, India's highest sporting honour, and the Padma Shri and Padma Vibhushan awards in 1999 and 2008, respectively.


After a few hours of his final match on 16 November 2013, the Prime Minister's Office announced the decision to award him the Bharat Ratna, India's highest civilian award. He is the youngest recipient to date and the first ever sportsperson to receive the award. He also won the 2010 Sir Garfield Sobers Trophy for cricketer of the year at the ICC awards. In 2012, Tendulkar was nominated to the Rajya Sabha, the upper house of the Parliament of India.


In December 2012, Tendulkar announced his retirement from ODIs. He retired from Twenty-20 cricket in October 2013 and subsequently announced his retirement from all forms of cricket, retiring on 16 November 2013 after playing his 200th and final Test match, against the West Indies in Mumbai's Wankhede Stadium.


Sachin Tendulkar is widely acknowledged as one of the greatest batsmen of all time. The Master Blaster is considered one of the complete batsmen ever. He has all the shots in the book. He is the most admired cricketer in the world. Every Indian should be proud of him. None of the batsmen can replace him and no words can express his amazing talent, power and achievement. It is rightly said that if cricket were a religion, Sachin would be the god.